okay hello guys and welcome to my
channel today is the 4th of July holiday
in America that's why I'm wearing an
American sweatshirt uh and I have a
guest today
David's lad and he's from Russia but
he's in his Harvard MBA and you know
what's the funniest thing when I moved
to the building where we are right now
where I live right now um we met flag
and he actually watched my channel
before before getting into notes yeah
that is so cool right and he's our
neighbor so I asked him to join me today
to answer your questions about getting
into Harvard and as you know Harvard MBA
is the top MBA in the world if you look
at any ranking so I use US news.com
ranking and Harvard has been the first
for many many years um and yeah I know
we're just warming up and we see new
people coming so already 77 what I
wanted to remind you guys is that if you
have any questions we'll be reading them
on liquid drips website the website is
if you're watching from YouTube is below
the video so if you click a link below
um you will be able to ask your question
using your Facebook on language comp so
yeah for those who are just joining us
please let me know which country you
from and if you are looking at doing an
MBA at all or if you're just used to you
know practice your English I like the
comment oh yeah harpus oh yeah yeah so
yeah welcome welcome everyone
um we'll be waiting for the last ones to
join me well what can you tell us a
little about yourself so what is your
background
yeah so right now I could finish my
first year at a business school prior to
my MBA I was working at yes that is
largest European aunt Helen Company and
competing with Booker there I was
responsible for business development was
the head of business development and
part of top management team before that
I was
McKinsey Consulting and retail consumer
goods banking healthcare earlier I also
work as a consultant at Accenture and
for me was I think it was always obvious
that I should go to him base I think I
was 25 or 26 yeah and what is the
average age he said I would say then
that average age is it depends on the
university I think it's tempered it's
higher but in general it appears I think
it's around 27 awesome okay say you're
writing that you cannot hear me I think
the problem might beat the mic okay let
me know if you hear me well I can do
like this asking a question because this
mic is just for one person um yeah I'm
just waiting for the comments that they
can hear me hi marina age limit in an
experience to join hover Adobe yeah
we're gonna answer that so yeah if you
have any questions like if you could go
to lingo trip and just ask them there
I'm gonna ask some questions right now
oh I can hear it thank ya I'm gonna have
some questions right now and then we're
just gonna go to linguae trips website
and I'm gonna read all of your questions
to blood and he's gonna answer so yeah
well my first question would be what was
your GPA on GPA was around five out of
five five out of five hundred percent
and wasn't your university souls
universe um so I'm marina I'm from
Russia and last seven years I lived in
Moscow but originally I'm not from
Moscow I'm from a small estate it's
called cool and I have you noticed like
my bachelor degree there it was not any
and like
well-known brand or like well-known
universities so it missed the regular
Russian in those two then I moved to
Moscow and I bought my master's degree
there this one was quite well-known in
Moscow but still I mean it's not known
here at yes so I would say it's no toe
print just just regularly
High School of Economics okay okay cool
so five out of five high school of
economics you have experience in working
for an international company so how long
can you be working by joint so what was
the total sorry I'm gonna do it like
this because I know you can't hear me
she I mean yeah yeah I think they hear
you but like why okay okay guys can you
hear me like this and let me know if you
can hear me if you cannot hear Vlad
because I cannot figure out I see that
the sound is like it's active okay okay
okay
we can hear you okay good good so I'm
gonna do like this it's gonna look weird
yeah I'm just trying to figure out yes
okay we can hear you okay okay thank you
thanks okay perfect
got it thank you so much see ya 5.0 GPA
well known University not a well-known
in the world but a pretty well-known yes
yes um and how many years of work
experience I think it was around five or
six five I think okay five years of work
experience and I wanted to add guys so
I've attended a couple of Harvard MBA
sessions for those who want to enter
into Harvard and they said you can
always try and apply for Harvard and be
even if you don't have work experience
and they actually had like one of the
girls who did your bachelor's in Harvard
and then applied for the NBA but I would
say you your application is more
competitive you if you have work
experience and it's better that your
work experience comes from a well known
company so do you know how many people
you have with experience and well-known
big company like I was saying that like
70% 70% people are from the well-known
companies but that doesn't necessarily
I mean that they are looking for the
people from the well-known companies I
think it's bears right now is doing a
good job at development entrepreneurship
and I think more and more they are
looking for they're looking for people
with startup experience in
entrepreneurship experience I don't know
exactly admission criteria but my
feeling is that they're trying to be
looking for those types people do you
know any entrepreneurs yeah yeah I have
I have lots of guys in my section and in
my class who are doing startups before
which fails
okay were they successful with the
outcome of the startup I mean that that
it depends on how you determine success
but some of them sold their shares in
the startup so I think it was successful
so is a pretty successful Serbia because
sometimes people ask me I have this
private consultations when they ask me
so for example on this company and I
have like three employees but we haven't
raised anything with that be counted
towards like a startup experience I
would say it's better to have a success
story right I would say there is a good
story behind it then you you can sell it
maybe a start-up is small and dislike
free people but if three people in your
startup are helping hundreds of people
to solve some problem and you can you
know explain what this problem is and
why this is important for people then
probably a story so yeah cool and what
was like there are many questions
already about your GMAT and mental so
let's talk about GMAT first always a
score my score was 770 m 710 mm-hmm I
would say it's it's like the lower bar
yeah the average I think the every 740
right okay mmhmm yeah how long did it
take you to prepare um it took me quite
a long time to prepare since I didn't
have a met back round and in this
might not is not my first language I
think I've tried like three times
finally it was successful and I was
super anxious so from half a year from a
year you have you tried to pass once or
German 23 times three times so three
actual exams what was this for I don't
remember but they were lower okay yeah
so my advice try to do as many practice
tests as you can at home have you done
any breakfast yeah it's a scooter so
yeah okay and okay so you try two times
and I know you tried to apply to our
universities right yes at first I advise
I think that by the year before to
Stanford with really low GMAT scores so
I think it was six six
agent oh yeah the top schools it is well
for a lot of like 90% of business
schools this would be a great score
because like six hundred fifty six
hundred eighty but we're talking about
top 20 business schools and we're
talking about like Stanford and Harvard
of course it's better if your GMAT score
and starts with a seven and it's better
that it's somewhere around the median
GMAT and for Harvard and Stanford is
around 7 730 okay so you try to apply
with 16 yeah I think the main problem
with GMAT is the lack of time because
the time lag between each each try
should be at least once you don't have
if you are working and if you're working
much like a silent and you don't have
enough time this is a huge problem to to
pass the exam simply because you don't
have enough time so yeah and then next
year I applied to promptly all the
talking days my I was invited everywhere
to thing to use and I was accepted to
Harvard my and I think the main
difference was it the
at Harvard you have professional HR
people to attend introduced while at
other schools it have read it and I
think my general feedback from other
schools was that I was too much
experience for the schools and their
main question was why do I even applied
to MA I have such a great position I was
the head of business development at that
time at a global startup mm-hmm and why
here what what did you say so why did
you choose your MBA right now I think I
couldn't from I I couldn't provide a
grade on such a moment and probably
that's why it was I actually passed that
the first bound like essays but on the
interviews I think I got this feedback
that I'm going to much experience for me
okay so can you name the schools that
you replied it's like atomic top four
schools it's definitely a justified in
the first row like nyet before and then
make Chicago built the insult okay I
like that this this sounds like a great
story like rejected from Chicago would
Stanford but accept it to hover it was
just great
okay I was here TOEFL floor so I tried
both IELTS and TOEFL so else's in
general I think they'd accept TOEFL in
more schools than piles so I started
with IELTS and I was 8 and my joyful I
think was compared to the lower than
Isles so I just used my man okay
so in general you broses it seems like
your process took like two years right
yeah
the first year I don't really have time
so my my best recommendation for people
applying right now to be is to take your
time like I don't know take a leave take
a vacation and prepare and pass the exam
and do they say don't do don't try to do
it in parallel with your job I think
it's really hard
yeah I guess because I tried to do a
parallel with the job and I tried to
sell like two hours every day preparing
the tea men and the whole weekend
and it takes a lot of your energy
definitely so the next question so you
applied to Javert in the first round
right in this probably probably in the
second okay second round so January and
then being ready to the interview yes
did you need to travel yes my interview
actually they they send you a list of
countries where you can do the interview
you can also do the interview online on
skype my I think of course the best way
to do the interview is travel so I had
mine to be in London and it was really
great it was from out of all my
interviews to business school a t-bills
interview process course was the best
one
mm-hmm because you are talking to
professional admission people who know
all your background when you come back
they know like everything about yourself
they know your biography and they just
want to selectively check some of the
details and it's really good to talk to
someone who really knows a lot about you
okay cool and but did you have to travel
no although things you just burn country
because think okay okay and so which
businesses ask you okay um actually you
can find all the questions on Google FX
and they want to check some details that
they found interesting in my background
so I think things you use 45 minutes
it's really the staff in terms of the
timeline so they just ask you placed on
one by one they don't really give you
much time to answer so temporarily
refused but at the same time they are
super friendly and open and you finally
like very much interested in insightful
to talk to them and actually after the
interviewed have to write a reflection
on the inspector it's like a second
essay and you have probably 24 hours to
the rightness s and yeah I found it
really interesting to sit in my hotel
and like you know share my insights from
the interview shares and I've learned
about myself also since I was talking
with professional meeting committee that
I think these people really know how to
ask the right questions yeah I can share
yeah I totally agree because when I was
interviewing for MIT they knew
everything about me she was like asking
me about my youtube channel and about my
stardom and I was like whoa really she's
done a great job so yeah I think the
interviews are mostly even if they are
in Skype they want to make sure you are
who you are so that you've rewritten
your motivation letters because there
are loads of people who ask like
professionals to create the whole story
for them which is not the best thing to
do because you have to be genuine you
have to be yourself and they want to
make sure you are yourself that you
speak English this is also for
international students I took some
admission guys and they say there are so
many students who can take TOEFL score
like hundred but then you ask them a
question and they can't comprehend they
can't understand you so for
international students and interviews
also a reason like I mean to check your
English language level yeah you like
would have startup fails question I'm
sorry I'm reading it I'm hearing it so
even if you have startup sales um you
know like Harvard we're talking about
Harvard today Harvard is looking for
extraordinary people and if it's even if
it's to startup they're looking for an
extraordinary story behind your startup
and if it's failed because I don't know
you had million users a day and your
service service crashed and you didn't
have money to pay for extra servers this
is an interesting story
it was just failing because you started
and nobody wanted to buy your product
and you shut it down this is not an
extraordinary story so always remember
that always when you're writing a
personal statement when you're thinking
about what to say in your interview keep
that in mind that top business schools
are looking for extraordinary
professionals even if it's a startup
even the
you know even if you just did your
bachelor's and thinking of doing the
setup there has to be something
extraordinary your background um so I'm
going to the coming to the interesting
part what about funding I best helps
with funding um so first of all they
give you financial aid did you have to
stay in your application that you're
gonna be applying for financial aid and
I think you stated an application but
they they don't check anything at this
moment so after you get accepted you
have to stand it somewhere like on the
website once again depending on salary
levels properties have its own they they
give you financial aid that can be up to
70% of the tuition what is the maximum I
don't know the maximum but I think it's
up to 75% of the tuition then it will be
like roughly four percent of the total
cost of and then they can also you know
provide you a loan because it is not an
event at Harvard has its own bank where
you can actually take a little mm-hmm
okay so yeah however business school is
need-blind Business School and Harvard
University's need-blind and there are
many universities that I need blind and
I'm gonna explain what need-blind means
so when you apply even if you say that
you're gonna rely on the university's
financial aid that you have one thousand
dollars of savings and that's it for
your studies they are not going to
consider this a part of application
they're not going to tell you hey your
application is great but because you
only have one thousand dollars we're not
going to accept you this is not the case
with need-blind
business schools but there are also
schools that are needed where and this
is where you have to really pay
attention because if they need a where
and your application is not really
strong and you're stating that you're
gonna need you're gonna rely on
universities financially they can reject
you just based on that again I'm
repeating Harvard
no like that so once you get into
Harvard and you show them your bank
statement they're gonna figure out the
rest
so for example s flat said they can
cover 70 up to 70 percent of tuition
fees with scholarships of fellowships or
assistantship there are there are first
of all there are there is this
fellowship then there are also
scholarships for example there are like
a scholarship for when people come in
from Poland for example something like
this I think if you check the website
and there are different different
sources of financing on the website with
exact scientist and with exact money I'm
just I don't want to be mistaken here so
yeah and the information is new every
year so I always recommend like if you
ever lying on university's financial aid
always ask how much is it possible to
get covered by universities funds and
also like so 70% gets covered can get
covered with financial fellowships and
scholarships the rest can be covered
with loans and Harvard is one of the
schools that can keep loans to
international students because not every
University like this is not Harvard
itself who's giving you money but
they're working with banks and because
you got into Harvard you have this
credibility and banks wouldn't need a
person in the States to like cosign with
you they would just need a paper from
Harvard stating that they've admitted
you and you're gonna get you alone
have you taken yes yeah so Oh
tell us how it works so tell us about
your financial um it's again a and so
basic numbers but it's like super simple
you just said need to form the website
and then they they say like hey your
loan is approved and then each bone has
installments so I think you get a
portion of your loan every semester so
like in September you get like the first
portion the engineer at the second one
it's all do you know how the repayment
works how long would you need to yeah I
don't need I don't need to repay
anything
so that the tree is balanced and I think
happier after that and then I need to
like pay some some every every month do
you know if it's based on your salary
because I know sometimes you provide you
a salary you say like I got this salary
I can contribute 20% of my salary
it's it's not less than the salary I
think it's a fixed sum but there are a
lot in general in years there are like
lots of options to refinance to repay
your loan and so on I have not checked
it yet but can you just close the no I
don't know if I can so if you can we're
gonna shoot a video probably and I'm
gonna ask about that later okay that was
it yeah is this something you expected
or it was above yours I think it was
above my expectations cool nice okay so
yeah the success story um applied to six
business schools rejected from father
sent into Harvard with a really generous
offer in terms of financially yeah I
think it sounds great
okay um so and maybe let's talk about
your internship so you are now in San
Francisco on doing your internship which
is compulsory right for the program you
need to work here in the summer I don't
need I mean I can just fellow and I have
lots of friends who prefer to to travel
one of my friends essentially taken like
pilot classes you know he's like you
know getting ready to get his pilot
license just depends how did you find
the startup that you work for it
um there are lots of ways testimony have
a career website yes that looks really
cool they organized you the interviews
you can also make the beats on the
interview
for the companies then there are also
different flops my tech club finance
Club and they all send you like weekly
emails where they have like the recent
industry news was what's going on at HBS
but conferences meetups and so on and
they also have like open opportunities
for sama of time so that you can
actually answer and apply so I think I
found my startup at one of these weekly
emails from that o'clock nice so any of
leiden you've got accepted and you came
to San Francisco for three months yeah
okay cool so yeah I'm pretty easy to get
a summer internship and my next question
would be like what what it how does he a
class is like do you have like a lot of
extra ordinary people because I hear
that like Harvard Business School has
the best minds from all over
yeah the class was a great surprise lots
of extraordinary people and I was
surprising many people who go to the
government they really dictate well
educated they they know lots of
interesting things about the US politics
and what's going on there were like
military guys who are like really
extraordinary there are guys with all
the different backgrounds but silence on
these are single in mind to me so I know
these people like well there are some
guys who did styles and they also have
this broad an interesting experience and
then we have people from different
countries either from small a lot of
small ones we have we have a guy coming
from Ghana really small so yes and in
the classroom you can actually find them
flags of all the countries other people
come from and the whole classroom is fit
with blacks nice and do you feel like
you're a part of elite club ah yes I
think so I actually feel that in the
airport when you are wearing some if
there's no change eyes and then people
come in to you say hey
Harvard hat and I wear it in San
Francisco it was like oh did you get it
home and there is also alumni website
where you can find all the alum is from
all the programs not only in University
and in this website you can actually
text editor and know that and people
spawned so that's actually one of the
way people find their summer internship
or a full-time job okay nice and yeah
the question I forgot asked about the
application and see somebody's asking
about statement of purpose essays can
you tell us what what did you write
about yeah it was it was pretty
interesting so last year the topic was
please introduce yourself to the class
mates and when I was thinking of that
and they knew it
yes really famous for its pace method so
I decided to use a case method to
introduce myself and since I had this
healthcare background I studied with the
case like how would you improve
healthcare in a developing country where
healthcare is free of charge and what
what will you do how you prioritize
limited budget like would improve the
service quality or would you like
concentrate on the medical outcomes and
then I may made a transition to my
biography how I started with work and
travel program here in u.s. how I was
working in a service industry here in
yes how I found that people here like
people here I can do like really those
big job but at the same time to smile
and happy about that job thing that
wasn't I haven't seen it but yeah this
to people here so I think that was one
of my first like this service kind of
experience that struck me a lot and then
in wife while I was working
sound I was
lots of projects and healthcare and I
was working a lot in service quality and
I was really interested on how improving
service quality is influencing medical
outcomes so I talked a lot about this
and then I made a transition so my work
could get where I was also launching
services I was launching delivery
service and I was talking how I was
working up service quality there and
then I was talking about my objective
and my objective was to launch new
services that will benefit few months
then we'll have this cool service
quality actually and yeah I think that
that was a great story yeah this is
another this is another twice that yeah
when you're writing a personal statement
you really need to pay attention because
it's gonna take you around two weeks up
which is minimum right two weeks minimum
it took me like around a month too and
yeah yeah yeah it took me around two
months and I kept rewriting it and
rechecking it and always did you have
like somebody to check your personal
statement well I think the best way is
to talk to the alumnus like to the
people who radiated or are starting at
its base right now because they're
actually the best people they've done it
before and they provide you a computed
vice what should be there I probably
should be at something and also in each
answer you have a part that is you know
describing what what what are your
objective at its best and the best way
to learn about these peers is to talk to
people from experts how how did you
reach them I did it in a different way I
actually from Littlefield four years ago
I felt so
and I lived at HBS for a week and I
really lived in the dorms visited some
classes I was you know traveling around
Boston and yeah this is this helped me a
lot I knew how things were gonna touch
bears
I knew the business school really well
so visiting business tools helped me a
lot okay yeah for those who just joined
us a question so Vlad is from Moscow and
now he's doing his Harvard MBA he just
graduated from his year one she's
finished she's here once hosted yeah
he's um he's doing this internship in
San Francisco right now and in September
is going back to Boston to continue and
I'm asking him like drilling you with
admissions questions like how do you get
into Harvard um cool so yeah and my
another advice like getting connected
with a little net work for me I think in
both MIT and Johns Hopkins I just
reached out to the delicious comedian
ask them hey do you have any
entrepreneurs because I'm coming from
this entrepreneurs background and I have
my own company
can you please connect me with somebody
but was graduated from you school and
it's maybe running a business and they
gave me a link to in links to the
profiles of the guys to graduated and I
connected with him I wouldn't say it was
really really helpful I would say it was
just like um a confirmation that yes
there are entrepreneurs coming out of
this business school and then maybe I
looked at that air out like startups and
it compared to I can read lips to mine
and I thought oh good ways to present my
startup and also another thing I know
many of misses schools that are
introducing like video interviews not
video like instead of an essay for
example at MIT you can create a video
and there are so many MIT videos on
YouTube you can just watch them and you
can learn the Google people and see
whether they got in because they thought
was that information election this is
what um what else is it why am i holding
the microphone because it's standing the
son does not really good at like doing
weird things right here okay so um I'm
gonna go to your questions guys
for those who just joined I'm gonna post
a link once again I'm gonna post a link
in our chat and if you have questions
please follow that link and ask the
question and we're gonna start with the
really first ones I'm gonna update the
page right now so let's see okay hi
marina hello okay
tomorrow is my instant interview on
skype for high school in the US can you
give me some tips
how should I prepare um okay if it's a
high school I guess you just need to
practice speaking English on skype I
hope you had a tutor or maybe you have a
tutor who can help you practice because
Skype interview is different from a live
interview because you're talking to a
person like this it's easier because you
have your body language your smile and
whatever like send your at achievement
through Skype is a little different make
sure you have enough lighting so the
person so that person can see you
because I've talked to some admission
guys in this say like sometimes we talk
to a person he's sitting in a dark room
because it's midnight in the country
where the student is and everything is
black and there is like this space
lighted by the screen so it so make sure
you don't do that make sure you have
enough lighting and good connection good
microphone I don't think there's a lot
you can do in the day but I think the
standard questions they're asking is
like what are you doing right now like
how's your job going is there anything
new since you've applied this is
something they're always asking and
another thing um I think you can also
contribute that so what they always ask
me at the age of you ask do you have any
questions for us and it's really good if
you have a couple of questions tickets
to be sailing no it means you maybe
you're not really interested or you like
I don't know what but they can make her
own conclusions so um I would always ask
about like my questions were
about running a startup like I'm doing
MBA at the same time I was asking
whether they had students doing that I
was asking if I can do if I can run with
my startup instead of doing an
internship during summer and yeah
Harvard told me yes okay we're gonna
give you $10,000 for you to start it
company which is great and mighty just
to say yeah what did you ask I think
like first of all really good advice
about your questions to the interview
because the main objective here is not
to simply ask the question but it's your
last chance to stand out so make sure
that you ask really smart questions and
the questions that can actually be a
good conversation
where you can also share your knowledge
and the second thing is I think you
should also Google for the most
difficult questions in this university
because again even for each player can
find all the questions and incubate in
the Internet
you should just prepare to this
questions yeah and if you are if you're
interested in financial aid I think this
is all CEO opportunity to tell about
your savings whatever or ask whether you
can live off satan's oho lack of savings
here and ask whether they provide in
whether they could provide enough
financial aid so I always when I was
interviewing with Johns Hopkins they
they asked me the question like why
would you choose us instead of any other
universities because they always know
that you're applying to don't just want
University of Plains like five or six
and I told him that my decision would
really depend on the amount of financial
aid and I think this really influenced
their decision because they offered me
the full scholarship so if you're like
looking for this financial aid don't
forget to mention it because um you
don't want to be in a situation where
they give you an offer and they also
send you an invoice for a hundred
thousand dollars and this is the only
way for you to get in and get you um
Sunan visa so make sure you're open and
clear with the university because you
are talking to people who are making
decision and who gonna submit your case
to the financial aid department so I
would say be honest about it okay um
okay glance it that can enemy a student
I'm sorry they graduated from top 200
years national school rank and continue
at PhD in one of top 50 business schools
in the u.s. uh yeah I don't really think
well I would say yes uh if it's top 200
it's also important than you pass cherry
or GMAT depending on what kind of PhD
you're pursuing and also have
publications because PhD is about
research and it's about working with
your professor and making research
together so make sure you have the right
professor who has the same interests
scientific interests as you and when
you'd like you need to show him what
you've already done and the best way to
show it is to show your articles
published in English in some scientific
magazines have you ever considered a PhD
no but I was really thinking not that it
was really thinking but when I got when
I was finishing my first year at Harvard
I I was really upset that I'm too old to
do double program like there are three
years program at Harvard when you - when
you get a joint degree at a BA probably
like somewhere else for example in the
school of political science because I
was really surprised how how good are
the professors from the Kennedy School
how experienced they are how and biased
they aren't like the willing make that
classes they leave the passes like a
show and it's so exciting so if I was
probably like three years younger I
would definitely make a previous program
combining my MBA and school of political
science why why do you say you were too
old is that because this is something
you think or they have like an age limit
no they don't have an age limit is just
it's just for me I think it's beef like
I don't want to
spent three years on studying at my
point right now but if I was 25 I would
definitely do that oh that's a great
question we haven't actually covered
them as well letters of recommendation
and the question is how how much does
the letter of accommodation matter and
who should be the right person to get it
from professors managers colleagues yeah
so I think there is there is the myth
that your letters of recommendation
should be from some well-known people
some really cool people best hotness not
necessarily my recommendation is to get
the recommendations from the people who
know you well rather than people who
know it B's but they are like a space
alumnus or they are well-known people in
your country or globally I actually had
an opportunity to to get recommendation
from its best alumni and really
well-known person in Russia but I just
decided to do to covering my
recommendation from my project manager
who actually had much more to tell about
me
so and that worked for me and I heard a
lot of stories about that so my my
advice here is to really get
recommendation from someone who knows
you if it is a bear salami or if it is
like you know a well-known person it's
it's even better but it's not the point
and were you okay with telling your
manager that you're applying for an MBA
and because consulting is a project
management job and you know at that time
I mean it's completely natural for
consultants to the NBA it's it's like an
educational leaf so everyone was fine
with it mm-hmm okay yeah I know many
people are struggling with this question
because they kind of don't really want
to tell their manager because if they do
not get accepted they want to stay in
their job the advice here is to ask for
a recommendation from your colleagues or
from you
or partners or from your sometimes your
client if it's a corporate client and
also talking about like celebrities or
whatever I was talking to a Stanford's
admission guy and he said you know we
have so many extraordinary people
applying to Stanford and we have
daughters and sons of presidents we have
daughters and sons of princes and kings
and we get all kinds of recommendations
but this is and they I actually already
blind for those celebrity names they
don't really care because they're
getting most of them what they care
about is how deep the person knows you
and how much feedback you can provide on
you being in a professional environment
or like telling anecdotes about your
real life and not just you know saying
that you're a really responsible person
you're gonna get into Harvard and you're
gonna do your MBA and get the best
grades so business schools are looking
for leaders and the best proof of your
leadership is your past success so for
example if you're asking a project
manager to submit a recommendation you
need to ask him for specific anecdotes
specific situations where you've proved
to be a leader I don't know maybe you
had like three days to complete the
project and then the next day there is a
thunderstorm in Moscow I mean the
electricity switches off and you like
take the whole team to Finland can you
complete the project like to st.
Petersburg
so these real anecdotes can show the
image to this community who you are as a
professional as a person as a leader so
yeah don't try to reach somebody who is
really high and who which is write a
really formal recommendation letter look
for somebody who's going to make it
personal I can again I can actually add
so one of the guy actually my project
manager who was doing a reference to me
he also submitted the links to the on
the website we TV TV news with the news
about our project oh wow so yeah so it
was like
links to the operation channel with news
about our project so that his story and
his referenced about me was backed up
with these it was in Russian so I don't
know if they really looked at this God
and even if they look from the Legion to
understand anything but he did that and
so I think yeah don't don't be scared to
do something extra
yeah don't don't like scan all of your
diploma to prove that you've done some
don't scan your articles but providing a
couple of links it's not obligatory but
it can just back your application yeah
and also yeah if you have articles also
provide links oh yes some people ask me
what are they gonna check they're not
gonna really check what you saying then
I'm gonna do like a background check in
your recommender but they're gonna look
whether it sticks with your application
if you say for example I had three out
of five GP it's cool and then I found
the University but then I started in my
but then I went to a consulting
permanent loaded but nobody knows the
consulting firm and this might look a
little sketchy so make sure the story is
complete and they're annoying well in my
case I had another guy for my project
who was also client which bears and they
were actually asking us the same
questions so if we both don't tell it
true for like we you know had different
facts that that would look really
strange so I think if you're like
applying from my top known investment
bank or consulting firm make sure that
you know you and your friends like on
the same page and I mean it would be
strange if if one of us told something
like completely different about the
project yeah yeah and also make sure you
recommend are submitting every
commendation with a corporate email
because sometimes if they see like at
gmail.com
um this can be something that could be
made up like you create an email or your
professor or whatever so make sure the
email is coming from corporate people
okay next question do you know what am i
Emma's Western Maryland Western
marketing uh sorry sorry I don't know
what am I am is my certain management
okay
masters and management is not really uh
they're not laws of masters in
management normally people do an MBA
because it's a so masters in economics
is normally a one-year program and they
is a two-year program it's more complete
it has more things to edit because I
always say like Envy it's not about
knowledge that you're getting it's about
the community it's about meeting you
people and building your network and if
it's the one year program where you have
to study nine hours a day then there is
no time for networking when it's a
two-year program and then you have
enough time for everything
um so yeah really again when I was
selecting my university my first
criteria was getting financial aid which
is probably not the best case you need
to select a program but so I was
applying to those masters so for example
Johns Hopkins doesn't provide financial
aid for an MD but it provides financial
aid from masters so it's just applied
for masters but at the same time
University of Florida all me had
financial aid for an MBA program um
that's a funny question I like the last
one yeah definitely so first of all god
you should get accepted to two to both
yeah and then have any choice you would
probably think of that I didn't know
I've never started a Stanford I can only
tell about our well and our life is
doing a great job right now at
attracting to intrapreneurship people in
developing intrapreneurship they provide
you all the resources they provide the
iLab with only infrastructure I mean
they provide demand
they are changing the program a lot so
right now I think we have lots of
intrapreneurship classes we have lots of
classes like e-commerce digital
marketing and so on so yeah they're
working on it and they're doing a really
great job and if you get the number of
startups coming from from Harvard it's
it's quite impressive so yeah I mean I
would say that it bears definitely has a
great infrastructure to run your own
startup
the main problem will be lack of time
but that's that's a different question
yeah I think maybe it also depends on
what kind of sort of you're running
because I feel that um East Coast is
more about finance and we will stop
where as Stanford like West Coast more
about IT but again in defense I think
it's it's about the culture you're in
yeah also Boston is a great place for
biotechnology for robot yes but also
also lots of just you know on-demand
startups or something like this I kind
of from each pair so yeah I think it's
it's a good place to do something on
your own
moreover if you have a pair you can also
have people fountains from MIT that is
just across the river so you actually
get the signatures of two universities
that goes together like 1+1 is always
better than just one yeah so apply to
both
and then see whether you get into both
and see what kind of financial aid
you're getting from every single and
then then you compare because we had a
student who got accepted to both a
Harvard PhD in economics and Stanford
PhD in economics and he waited till his
financial situation was released like
the amount of financial aid and then he
made this decision so just yeah just do
both um okay we're getting on to the
next question okay I want to starting my
undergraduate studies in computer
science in India what do you think I
just started doing from now for the next
four years
okay yeah the question is what can I do
now when I'm just studying my bachelor's
degree to get into top university to do
MBA well I would say maintaining a high
GPA having like hundred-percent really
important then what else maybe getting
more experience I would say that doing
anything extra curricular will help a
lot because I guess there are like lots
of people with HP from India or with big
technical background I think if you can
add something unique to your application
it will definitely work for you think of
a star of the Newton law think of some
social initiative probably I mean social
initiatives have lots of impact and they
don't don't mean so much time so think
about that and I mean think about doing
something in science like mainly write
articles maybe did some research that
that will be well-known that I think
that also works mm-hmm okay and yeah I
would also say start preparing for your
GMAT during the year 3 because during
the year before you will be applying to
all of the business schools and remember
that you have to submit your application
one year prior to beginning of your
studies and this is the best like if you
go into the from one which is September
so this means that during the year
before in September you will need to
have you a team at and dopost more if
you need it if you don't then just GMAT
so start preparing as early as you can
um I'm trying to select relevant
questions um oh yeah another great
question about like doesn't matter if
it's a top ten school or an Ivy League
school we're just discussing it lately
so Ivy League it doesn't so what is not
a substantive right is not Ivy League
right hmm
or any since I'm a little so I believe
it's not um a change in quality ranking
it's just um eight private schools that
took part in this competition in let's
see swimming or whatever whatever was it
yes sports its Brown University Columbia
Cornell Dartmouth harvard pennsylvania
princeton yeah so Stanford is not even
there but Stanford is ranked number two
in in terms of business schools so I
wouldn't pay attention to whether this
goes Ivy League or not I would pay
attention to official rankings in the
program and I'm going going back to the
question I'm sorry
so yeah I wouldn't say if it's if the
school is not in the Ivy League it's not
a good school you should really pay
attention to the rankings what can I um
oh what can I do if I graduate from top
ten MBA schools that I cannot do if I
graduate from top hundred I would say
Network is different of course if you if
you go to Harvard you have access to
high ranking people I know because you
have people for running companies who
are who have done a significant work in
their home country and maybe like you
have better access to companies that
recruit from those universities and over
the top consulting firms recruit from
like only Harvard or Stanford and they
wouldn't recruited from a low-ranking
MBA what would you say yeah I completely
agree it's I would say like three things
the first is quality of education
actually HBS was the school that
invented paste math I don't like most of
the schools are teaching by HBS basis so
this is one of the oldest schools and
definitely it tells you a lot about the
quality of education the second is
networking I think in the top schools in
opportunities will be better than in
other schools also HBase has an
executive education where you can also
find the right people so I think
networking is important and finally
career that you need to think about some
company in United States can they go to
all the Hamilton base no like that they
will just go to the top schools and high
appeal from the top schools so that
better enter school has been better for
you and the more opportunities you will
have mm-hmm totally agree okay uh where
are you running out of time here so I
wanna just - yeah maybe answer the last
question okay what if I needed
professors no employees have corporate
email addresses is it a compulsory safe
um I've never seen a professor not
having a corporate email because every
University would require no yeah I think
they almost only I think the only
exception will be when you're I don't
know when your project manager already
left that job and it's not your like
previous job but the church before in
that case
asked him to use his current job email
address so that probably he's working
for another company but still it's not
you know and then in that case I think
it may be fine same as good with the
professor if he is at some universities
he will have this or press yeah or maybe
like maybe your faculty has a corporate
address and you professor has access to
it then ask him to provide a computation
from the faculty email address but yeah
totally up we had like sometimes
students apply on their own and they
just write me an email at the end of
their application process and then say
they were like rejected from five
schools and I they asked for evaluation
and I look at
applications and all of the
recommendations came from at gmail.com
and then there were mistakes the
motivation letter and this all builds up
and there's this lack of credibility
with your applications until they
influence the decision so make sure
you're not making those mistakes that
are easily they can be easily avoided
like the corporate address yeah and also
you can talk to them in comments the end
up address them this question made the
day you can provide for you some
solution maybe a like this is something
credible okay cool uh thank you so much
guys so I think you've read the majority
of the questions on language rec and
thank you so much for joining us for
this webinar today
um I know glad I wanted to do some
consulting with you we gonna so its he's
not yet on our platform but he's gonna
appear to platform soon and the link is
gonna be below I'm gonna leave this
video so if you have any questions to
Vlad you will be able to book a private
session with him again thank you so much
for joining today and spending some time
with us I'm gonna show you the one last
thing this is what we're gonna go now
this is the swimming pool and there's so
many people out there right now because
it's a holiday in the States so yeah I
hope you have a great evening
and I hope to see you on the next
webinar every Tuesday 12 p.m. good bye